WE'RE HERE WITH SENATOR AL
FRANKEN.
JUNIOR SENATOR OR SENIOR
SENATOR?
>> JUNIOR.
>> Stephen: AL HAS A NEW BOOK.
IT IS CALLED "AL FRANKEN, GIANT
OF THE SENATE."
IT'S BEAUTIFUL.
IS THIS YOUR OFFICIAL PORTRAIT?
>> THAT IS, THAT IS.
( LAUGHTER )
IT'S AN OIL PAINTING.
AND --
>> Stephen: OKAY.
>> IT HANGS...
IN THE SENATE.
( LAUGHTER )
>> Stephen: JUST IN THE
SENATE.
JUST IN THE SENATE.
>> IN MY OFFICE.
>> Stephen: IN YOUR OFFICE.
OKAY, AS-- WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
THE, BEFORE THE BREAK.
THE BULK OF YOUR CAREER YOU HAVE
BEEN A COMEDIAN, A SATIRIST.
ARE THE PEOPLE IN THE SENATE
FUN?
ARE THEY FUNNY PEOPLE?
BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE THEY'RE A
BORING THUNDERDOME.
>> NO.
ACTUALLY, A LOT OF MY COLLEAGUES
ARE FUNNY, AND THAT'S HOW I BOND
WITH THEM.
FROM YOUR STATE, OKAY, I GET
SWORN IN.
I WAS SWORN IN A LITTLE LATE
BECAUSE MY ELECTION WAS VERY
CLOSE.
IS AND JIM DEMINT, A VERY, VERY
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICAN, A
COUPLE OF MINUTES AFTER I WAS
SWORN IN SAYSES, "HOW ARE THINGS
ON THE FAR LEFT?"
AND I SAID, "NINE, HOW ARE
THINGS FROM THE NUT CASE RIGHT?"
LINDSEY GRAHAM IS VERY FUNNY.
REMEMBER WHEN HE WAS RUNNING 15
OUT OF 17 IN THE REPUBLICAN --
>> Stephen: I THINK HE WAS 17
OUT OF 15.
( LAUGHTER )
>> SO I WENT UP TO HIM IN THE
SENATE, AND I SAID TO HIM, "YOU
KNOW, LINDSEY, IF I WERE VOTING
IN THE REPUBLICAN PRIMARIES, I'D
VOTE FOR YOU."
AND WITHOUT HESITATION HE SAID,
"THAT'S MY PROBLEM."
( LAUGHTER )
LINDSAY IS VERY FUNNY.
BUT WE--
( APPLAUSE )
THERE ARE SOME SENATORS WHO
AREN'T VERY FUNNY.
AND TOM COBURN FROM OKLAHOMA,
KNOWN AS "DR. NO" BECAUSE --
>> Stephen: HE IS A PHYSICIAN.
>> YES HE IS AN
OBSTETRICIAN/GYNECOLOGIST, AND
NO BECAUSE HE DIDN'T LIKE ANY
FEDERAL SPENDING, SO HE WOULD
SAY NO TO EVERYTHING.
HE WILL ADMIT THAT HE IS NOT A
VERY GOOD SENSE OF HUMOR.
THE FIRST THREE OR FOUR
INTERACTIONS WE HAD, WE JUST
KIND OF MISSED.
SO I WENT TO TOM AND I SAID,
"TOM, I CAN TAKE YOU TO LUNCH?"
AND HE SAID, "TELL YOU WHAT.
YOU CAN TAKE ME TO BREAKFAST."
I SAID OKAY.
SO WE MEET FOR BREAKFAST A
COUPLE OF DAYSULARITY IN THE
SENATE DINING ROOM, AND I SAID,
"TOM, LET'S JUST HAVE FUN."
AND HE SAID, "OKAY, FUN."
( LAUGHTER )
AND I SAID, "WE CAN TALK ABOUT
OUR FAMILIES.
TALK ABOUT POLITICS.
TALK ABOUT THE CAREERS WE HAD
BEFORE THE SENATE.
BUT LET'S HAVE FUN."
HE GOES, "OKAY."
I SAID, "OKAY, LET ME ASK YOU
THIS.
TO BE A DOCTOR IN OKLAHOMA, DO
YOU HAVE TO HAVE ANY FORMAL
EDUCATION?"
( LAUGHTER )
AND HE-- AND HE SAID, "YES!
YOU'VE GOT TO GO TO MEDICAL
SCHOOL!"
( LAUGHTER )
( APPLAUSE )
AND I SAID-- I SAID, "OKAY, TOM,
THAT WAS A JOKE."
( LAUGHTER )
"AND THAT'S WHAT I USED TO DO IN
MY CAREER."
AND THEN FOR THE REST OF THE
BREAKFAST WE HAD A REALLY GREAT
TIME.
I EXPLAINED TO HIM WHAT JEEK
JOKES WERE.
( LAUGHTER )
BUWHAT THE PROPER REACTION TO A
JOKE IS.
AND I GOT A NOTE LATER FROM HIM
THAT DAY SAYING, "I HAD A LOT OF
FUN."
>> Stephen: THAT'S NICE.
>> AND WHEN I WAS WRITING THE
BOOK-- "AL FRANKEN, GIANT OF THE
SENATE."
WHEN I WAS WRITING THAT, I
WANTED TO GET PERMISSION FROM MY
COLLEAGUES WHO I WROTE ANYTHING
THAT COULD BE INTERPRETED AS
NEGATIVE.
I CALLED HIM UP, HE'S IN
RETIREMENT.
HE'S IN OKLAHOMA.
I SAID, "TOM--" "HI, AL."
I SAID, "DO YOU REMEMBER THAT
BREAKFAST WE HAD?"
AND HE SAID, "YEAH, YEAH."
AND I SAID, "I WANT TO USE THAT
IN THE BOOK AND I WANTED TO GET
YOUR PERMISSION."
AND HE SAID, "WE HAVE THE FIRST
AMENDMENT.
YOU CAN WRITE ANYTHING YOU
WANT!"
( APPLAUSE )
SO HE HASN'T-- HE HASN'T
CHANGED.
>> Stephen: NO.
YOU COULD HAVE SAID, "WE ALSO
HAVE A SECOND AMENDMENT AND I
KNOW YOU'VE GOT GUNS."
>> HE WAS A STRONG SUPPORTER OF
THE RIGHT FOR AMERICANS TO BEAR
ARMS.
HE IS.
>> Stephen: NOW, YOU SAID, YOU
WROTE IN THE BOOK "AL FRANKEN,
GIANT OF THE SENATE."
YOU SAY IN THE BOOK YOU'VE
LEARNED WEIRD, SOCIOPATHIC
POLITICAL SKILLS.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
WHAT IS THE WEIRDEST POLITICAL
SKILL YOU'VE HAD TO LEARN?
>> PIVOTING.
>> Stephen: PIVOTING.
PIVOTING IS NOT ANSWERING A
QUESTION.
AND JUST PIVOTING.
>> Stephen: PIVOTING IS A WAY
OF PIVOTING OFF, "I'M NOT
ANSWERING YOUR QUESTION."
>> OR I'D BE ASKED, "YOU'RE 10
POINTS DOWN IN THE POLLS TO NORM
COLEMAN.
HOW ARE YOU GOING TO CONVINCE
DEMOCRATS TO NOMINATE?"
AND I'D GO LIKE, "YOU KNOW, WHEN
I GO AROUND MINNESOTA,
MINNESOTANS DON'T CARE ABOUT
POLLING.
WHAT THEY CARE ABOUT IS HEALTH
CARE AND THEIR KIDS' EDUCATION."
THAT'S PIVOTING.
>> Stephen: AND YOU WERE NOT
GOOD AT THAT?
>> I WAS NOT GOOD AT THAT.
I WAS TAUGHT TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS, AND IT TOOK ME
FOREVER TO LEARN HOW TO PIVOT.
>> Stephen: CAN YOU DO IT NOW?
>> I'M OKAY AT IT.
>> Stephen: CAN I ASK YOU A
FEW QUESTIONS AND YOU PIVOT OFF
OF THEM.
>> OKAY, OKAY.
>> Stephen: TELL YOU WHAT.
NO MATTER WHAT, IT'S "AL FRANKEN
GIANT OF THE SENATE," NO MATTER
WHAT I ASK YOU STAY ON MESSAGE
AND PROMOTE YOUR BOOK.
IF NORTH KOREA CONTINUES TO
ADVANCE ITS MISSILE PROGRAM,
SENATOR FRANKEN, SHOULD WE TAKE
MILITARY ACTION?
>> YOU KNOW, IN MY BOOK,
STEPHEN, I WRITE A LOT ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE OF LEVEL-HEADED
LEADERSHIP.
WHICH IS WHY I'M TERRIFIED OF
TRUMP.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: SENATOR FRANKEN,
DO YOU PLAN TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT
IN 2020?
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> YOU KNOW, IN MY BOOK,
STEPHEN, "AL FRANKEN, GIANT OF
THE SENATE,"
( LAUGHTER )
I TALK ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF
LEVEL-HEADED LEADERSHIP.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: YOU WIN.
YOU WIN.
>> THANK YOU, THANK YOU.
>> Stephen: "AL FRANKEN, GIANT
OF THE SENATE," IS AVAILABLE